docs(agentic-orchestration): add agent health and guardrails content (#9450)
camunda/camunda-docs: docs/components/agentic-orchestration/evaluate-agents/detect-off-rail-agents.md

## About

An agent can go off-rail without failing outright, for example, by getting stuck repeating a tool call or reasoning in circles. Left unnoticed, it keeps consuming tokens and model calls until it hits its configured limit.

In this guide, you will learn how to read an agent instance's [state and usage metrics](/components/agentic-orchestration/agent-states-and-metrics.md) to catch this early, and how to interpret limit proximity warnings.

## Identify a stuck or looping agent

No single health indicator proves that an agent is stuck. Look at the combination of state, usage metrics, and duration for the agent instance:

- **State doesn't change over an extended period.** An agent instance stuck in Thinking far longer than a typical model call, or in Tool calling far longer than the tool normally takes to respond, is not progressing through its loop.
- **Tool call count climbs without resolution.** The agent keeps calling the same tool, or a small set of tools, with similar or identical inputs across multiple loops, without the conversation moving toward a final response.

> - **Token consumption grows steadily loop after loop.** Since each loop appends the previous reasoning and tool results to the conversation, a steadily rising token count with no final response is a sign the agent is accumulating context without converging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Token consumption grows steadily over loop iterations.** Since each loop iteration appends the previous reasoning and tool results to the conversation, a steadily rising token count with no final response is a sign the agent is accumulating context without converging.
```

> - **Execution duration is disproportionate to the task.** The total time the agent instance has been active is much longer than comparable runs of the same agent, even though its state keeps changing, which suggests the agent is caught in a longer-than-expected cycle of loops rather than a single stuck call.

Reviewer: This is tricky - as the agent instance is active (idle state) until the process instance is completed/terminated.
We can change this to execution duration

Author: Updated to make it clearer

:::note
An agent that calls the same tool many times can still be legitimately working through a multi-step task. Treat these indicators together, not individually: an agent instance with a stalled state, a climbing tool call count, and a duration that keeps growing without settling is the strongest signal that it's going off-rail.
:::

## Interpret limit proximity warnings

Camunda tracks model calls made against the agent's configured [**Maximum model calls**](/components/agentic-orchestration/agent-states-and-metrics.md#model-call-limit) limit, so you can see how close an agent instance is to it before it's reached.

> A proximity warning means the agent instance is nearing its configured limit and could reach it on a subsequent loop, at which point the AI Agent connector throws a `MAXIMUM_NUMBER_OF_MODEL_CALLS_REACHED` error and stops the agent.

Reviewer: I think crossing this limit creates the incident right away - at least this is what happens today

Author: Added

---
id: detect-off-rail-agents
title: Detect off-rail agents
sidebar_label: Detect off-rail agents
description: "Use agent health indicators and guardrail proximity warnings to identify a stuck or looping AI agent before it fails."
keywords: ["agentic ai", "AI agents", "troubleshooting", "guardrails"]
---

> Use agent health indicators and guardrail proximity warnings to identify a stuck or looping AI agent before it fails.

Reviewer 2: 💭 In #9402 we have a review comment that `guardrail` should be referred to as `limits`. Does it effect the wording throughout this guide?

=> https://github.com/camunda/camunda-docs/pull/9402#discussion_r3636644627
